DOCS-10792 API visibility (#219)
mulesoft/docs-api-community-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/visibility.adoc

= Configure API Visibility
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

Anypoint API Community Manager uses visibility rules to make APIs visible to selected groups of users.

> For example, your community could have a Payment API and a Trade API visible to the financial developers team of users Ann, John, and Tim, and have an Order Submission API visible to the retail developers team of users Charles and Xiomara.

Reviewer: Can we add a little color to Ann, John, and Tim?

Reviewer: But...why introduce a scenario with names if the names are never used again?

Author: Decided to remove names. Fixed.

> API visibility rules use the Salesforce object *CommunityApi* to represent each API published in your community, and Salesforce https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=sf.user_groups.htm&type=5[Public Groups, role=external, window=blank] and https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=sf.security_about_sharing_rules.htm&type=5[Sharing Rules, role=external, window=blank] to provide a flexible permissions model.

Reviewer: Why boldface the SF object name? This is not a UI label in this context.

Author: Fixed.

> To set API visibility, link each public group of users to a sharing set, and grant each sharing set permission to see one or more APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up API visibility, link each public group of users to a sharing set, and grant each sharing set permission to see one or more APIs.
```
...followed by something like "Then configure your community, define public groups, ...."  (See comment that follows.)

Author: Fixed.

== Visibility Setup

Follow these steps to set up API visibility in your community.

> === Configure Your Community for Visibility

Reviewer: Visibility Setup has no content.
I suggest enhancing the text at Line 13 to mention the setup steps and then promote each, introducing with something like "The first task in setting up .... and "After <performing the previous>, you <perform the next task>."
```suggestion
== Configure Your Community for Visibility
```

Author: Fixed.

Follow these steps to configure your community for API visibility:

. Create a new *ACM Community User Plus* profile based on the *Customer Community User Plus* profile:

> .. Open *Salesforce Setup* > *Profiles*.

Reviewer: Why "open" instead of "click"?
GLOBAL

Author: Fixed.

> .. Select the *Customer Community User Plus* profile.

Reviewer: Depending on the clarity of the user interface...:
```suggestion
.. Select *Customer Community User Plus*.
```

Author: Yes, I think this is better. Fixed.

.. Click *Clone*.
.. Enter a name for the new profile that represents the use case, such as `External Developer`.

> .. Assign permissions that match the member user profile permissions described in the API Community Manager documentation section xref:create-community.adoc#configure-member-user-profile-permissions[Configure Member User Profile Permissions].

Reviewer: Could we use...:
```suggestion
.. Assign permissions that match the member user profile permissions described in the API Community Manager documentation.
```
We don't want to create interdoc dependencies, since the title or location might change.

Author: In this case, if we don't link the reader directly to the permissions, they'll lose a lot of time finding them, so I'm keeping this one.

> . Configure your community to use the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure your community to use the new profile:
```

Author: Fixed.

.. Open *Setup* > *All Communities*.

> .. In the API Community Manager control panel, open *Community Administration* and open the *Members* tab.

Reviewer: ditto "open"?

Author: Fixed.

> .. In the *Select Profiles* section, use the search dropdown to select *Customer*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In the *Select Profiles* section, use the search menu to select *Customer*.
```
OR, if the UI is clear:
```suggestion
.. In *Select Profiles*, select *Customer*.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .. Add the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile to the selected profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Add the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile to the selected profiles but _do not_ remove the *System Administrator* profile.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .. _Do not_ remove the *System Administrator* profile.

Reviewer: Not a step; see above.

Author: Fixed.

+
If you remove the *System Administrator* profile, the system locks you out and removes all access to your community.
.. Remove the existing *ACM Community User* profile.
. Remove all profiles from your community sharing set:
.. Open *Setup* > *Communities Settings*.

> .. In the *Sharing Sets* section, edit your community sharing set and remove all profiles from the *Selected Profiles*.

Reviewer: If UI is clear:
```suggestion
.. In *Sharing Sets*, edit your community sharing set and remove all profiles from *Selected Profiles*.
```

Author: Fixed.

> .. If the *Selected Objects* in the sharing set include *CommunityApi*, remove *CommunityApi* from the *Selected Objects*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. If *Selected Objects* in the sharing set includes it, remove *CommunityApi*.
```

Author: Much better! Fixed.

> . If your community already has users, open *Setup* > *Users* and update each user to change the *User License* to *Customer Community Plus* and select the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If your community already has users, open *Setup* > *Users*, update each user to change *User License* to *Customer Community Plus*, and select your new profile.
```

Author: I preserved the name of the new profile and implemented the other changes.

. In the API Community Manager control panel, set the visibility of each of your APIs to *Members Only*.

=== Define Member Groups (Public Groups)

> Use member groups, also known as public groups, to group members and then make individual APIs visible to the group. Visibility rules, also known as sharing settings, determine the APIs visible to a member group.

Reviewer: Set one term as the primary in the text that introduces this topic set, and then use that one consistently.

Always avoid punctuation in topic titles.

Reviewer: Use italics for also-known-as terms.

Reviewer: determine the APIs visible to a member group > determine which APIs are visible....
Just a bit more obvious

Author: Fixed.

To create a member group:

. Open *Setup* > *Public Groups*.

> . Create a *Public Group*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a public group.
```

Author: Fixed.

. Enter a name, such as `External Developers`.
. Click *Save*.

To add members to a member group:

. Open *Setup* > *Public Groups*.
. Edit the group.

> . In the *Search* dropdown, select *Customer Portal Users*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Search* menu, select *Customer Portal Users*.
```

Author: Fixed.

. Add the members by moving them from *Available Members* to *Selected Members*.
+
*Available Members* shows only users with the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile. If the user you want to add is not in *Available Members*, open the user record and verify the profile.
. Click *Save*.

=== Define Visibility Rules (Sharing Settings) for APIs

> Use visibility rules, also known as sharing settings, to define a set of conditions that determine if an API is visible to a specific member group.

Reviewer: ditto re. defining synonyms at the outset and then using only one thereafter.

Author: Fixed.

To create a new sharing set:

. Open *Setup* > *Sharing Settings*.

> . In the dropdown *Manage sharing settings for*, scroll down and select *CommunityApi*.

Reviewer: I am pretty sure our audience knows how to use a dropdown menu and what it is, so let's omit all the unnecessary verbiage around that....
```suggestion
. In the *Manage sharing settings for* menu, select *CommunityApi*.
```
OR
```suggestion
. In *Manage sharing settings for*, select *CommunityApi*.
```

Author: Much better! Fixed.

> . In the *Sharing Rules* section, click *New*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Sharing Rules*, click *New*.
```

Author: Fixed.

. Enter a name for the rule.

> . In the *Select your rule type* section, select *Based on Criteria*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Select your rule type*, select *Based on Criteria*.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . Define your desired criteria using the available fields on the API, such as *Name* and *Visibility*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Customize criteria using the available fields in the API, such as *Name* and *Visibility*.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> Use the *Add Filter Logic* option to define more complex rules with and/or conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use *Add Filter Logic* to define and/or conditions.
```

Author: Fixed.

> . Select the member group that sees the APIs matching these conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select a member group to enable it to view the APIs matching these conditions.
```

Author: Fixed.

In this example, an internal developer group sees publicly visible APIs and some internal APIs:

image::sharing-settings.png[Sharing Settings]

== Add Members to a Member Group

To add members to a member group:

. Open *Setup* > *Public Groups*.
. Edit the group.

> . In the *Search* dropdown, select *Customer Portal Users*.

Reviewer: ditto re. "dropdown" language

Author: Fixed.

> . Add the members by moving them from *Available Members* to *Selected Members*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add members to the users group by moving them from *Available Members* to *Selected Members*.
```

Author: Fixed.

+

> *Available Members* shows only users with the new *ACM Community User Plus* profile. If the user you want to add is not in *Available Members*, open the user record and verify the profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Available Members* shows only users with the new profile. If the user you want to add is not in *Available Members*, open the user record and verify the profile.
```

Author: As there are multiple profiles with confusingly similar names, I preserved this, in order to be specific and reduce confusion.

. Click *Save*.

== Make an API Visible to a Member Group

To make an API visible to a member group:

. Open *Setup* > *Sharing Settings*.

> . In the dropdown *Manage sharing settings for*, scroll down and select *CommunityApi*.

Reviewer: ditto Line 73

Author: Fixed.

. In the *Sharing Rules* section, create a new rule or edit an existing rule.
. Ensure the rule matches the API.

> . Ensure the rule specifies the member group.

Reviewer: See style ref: ensure > ensure that

Author: Fixed.

== Automation

Assign users to member groups automatically with any of these options.

> === Process Builder for Simple Automation

Reviewer: Same treatment as for visibility setup earlier.

Reviewer: On second thought, just make this a bullet list, although I would put the reason first:
```suggestion
== Automation Options

Choose the automation option that best suits your needs:

- For simple automation, such as..., use....
- To write....
- To perfrom....

```

Author: Much better! Fixed.

Use Salesforce https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=sf.process_overview.htm&type=5[Process Builder, role=external, window=blank] for simple automation such as adding each new user to a default public group.

=== APEX Triggers for Complex Automation

Use https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.apexcode.meta/apexcode/apex_triggers.htm[APEX triggers, role=external, window=blank] to write business rules for group assignment directly in APEX code.

=== Flows for Complex Automation

> Use Salesforce https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=sf.flow.htm&type=5[Flows, role=external, window=blank] to perform group assignment declaratively.

Reviewer: See above.

Author: Fixed.
